## READ ME

this data set is a modification of the "Human Activity recorgnition Using SMartphones"
dataset version 1.0 which was generated by
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws
www.smartlab.ws
 for more infomationa about the original data visit http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
 
 the dataset includes:
 ##Run_analysis.R script
 this code when run in r studio or terminal when the working directory is the data directory, 
 will load the features data  which will later be used as column names for the measurements
it will read data from the test folder, ie. read from ./test. subject(subjest_test), activity(y_test), measurments(x_test) & bind the data
and then read data from the train folder, ie. from ./train. subject(subjest_train), activity(y_train), measurments(x_train) & bind
it will merge train and test, extract measure of means and std for each measurement, using diplyr chain
add row indexes, gathering, separate measurment and spread mean and std into columns using Tidyr

use reshape to create averages for variables, activities and subjects
after transforming them, reshape using dcast
and finally write to text file

add descriptive names to the activities.
 README.md
 
 CODEBOOK.txt which explains the different variables in the data
 
 script.txt which gives a detailed process of analysis and summary done on the original data to come up with the final tidy data
 
 tidyData.txt which has the final data set summarized as for the instructions for the assignment
 
 the variable signal and axial were selected from the features varibale that had means and standard deviations
 each varible normalized with [-1, 1]
 
 the tidyData.txt contains mean and standard deviation data on 30 subjects each measured on 8 different signals(fBodyAcc, fBodyAccJerk,fBodyGyro, tBodyAcc, tBodyAccJerk, tBodyGyro,tBodyGyroJerk, tGravityAcc) in the 3 axial direction (XYZ) doing six activities ("walking","walking_upstairs","walking_downstairs","sitting","standing","laying").
 
 


